RHIDP-5421 - Document which plugins in RHDH have metrics (#1110)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: artifacts/rhdh-plugins-reference/keycloak/keycloak-plugin-admin.adoc

* `query-users`
* `view-users`

> == Metrics

Reviewer: Mod Docs supports the use of the "block headings" (the kind of that begin with `.`), but this type of heading gives the appearance of being unmodularized during a time when we are being asked to comply with all Mod Docs guidelines in preparation for DITA. Consider changing the heading type or modularizing based on what is most appropriate for the situation.

Author: @linfraze This is a substantial task that will involve moving content for each supported plugin from the artifacts/rhdh-plugins-reference folder to the modules/dynamic-plugins folder. Each plugin module will then need to be modularized.

I've created [RHIDP-7472](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-7472) to address this issue in 1.7.0.

> The Keycloak backend plugin supports link:https://opentelemetry.io/[OpenTelemetry] metrics to monitor fetch operations and diagnose potential issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Keycloak backend plugin supports link:https://opentelemetry.io/[OpenTelemetry] metrics that you can use to monitor fetch operations and diagnose potential issues.
```

=== Available Counters

.Keycloak metrics
[cols="50%,50%", frame="all", options="header"]
|===
|Metric Name
|Description
| `backend_keycloak_fetch_task_failure_count_total`       | Counts fetch task failures where no data was returned due to an error.
| `backend_keycloak_fetch_data_batch_failure_count_total` | Counts partial data batch failures. Even if some batches fail, the plugin continues fetching others.
|===

=== Labels

> All counters include the `taskInstanceId` label, which uniquely identifies each scheduled fetch task. This allows you to trace failures back to individual task executions. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All counters include the `taskInstanceId` label, which uniquely identifies each scheduled fetch task. You can use this label to trace failures back to individual task executions. For example:
```

[source,subs="+attributes,+quotes"]
----

> backend_keycloak_fetch_data_batch_failure_count_total{taskInstanceId="df040f82-2e80-44bd-83b0-06a984ca05ba"} 1

Reviewer: I'm actually not sure what the example is showing or what we expect the user to do with it. Do they enter this into a file or into a terminal?

Reviewer 2: One more example to get the number of failures during the last hour:
increase(backend_keycloak_fetch_data_batch_failure_count_total[1h])

Author: @AndrienkoAleksandr Thank you for providing these examples and the context for using them.

Could you please review the examples that I have added for technical accuracy?

----

// === Use Case Example

// Imagine your Keycloak instance is under-provisioned (e.g., low CPU/RAM limits), and the plugin is configured to send many parallel API requests.  
// This could cause request timeouts or throttling. The metrics described above can help detect such behavior early, allowing administrators to:

// - Tune the plugin configuration (e.g., reduce parallelism)
// - Increase resources on the Keycloak server
// - Investigate network or permission issues

=== Exporting Metrics

You can export metrics using any OpenTelemetry-compatible backend, such as *Prometheus*.

> See the link:https://backstage.io/docs/tutorials/setup-opentelemetry[Backstage OpenTelemetry setup guide] for integration instructions.

Reviewer: We're linking to upstream docs? Can we get approval from Tim Rees on this? 
cc @Preeticp

Author: @reestr Is it OK to link to upstream Backstage content in this context? 

Incidentally, we do this elsewhere in the product docs e.g. [Loading a custom Developer Hub theme by using a dynamic plugin](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/1.5/html/customizing_red_hat_developer_hub/customizing-appearance#proc-loading-custom-theme-using-dynamic-plugin-_customizing-appearance) in the _Customizing RHDH_ guide.
